# Thesis MSc AI: Prediction of spurious and false associations in biological networks

## Description
Elsevier is working in close collaboration with the Rochester General Hospital in harnessing prior knowledge from medical literature to assemble and analyse biological networks for the purpose of identifying intervention targets in complex chronic illnesses.  Although this prior knowledge of regulatory interactions is being extracted from Elsevier’s sizable corpus of over 5 million journal papers, the complexity of biological signalling is such much remains to be discovered. Hypothesis generation informed on the basis of regulatory interactions that are currently reported is a critical component in the optimal planning of new experiments. The prediction of spurious or indirect associations (false positives), as well as the absence of functionally important direct interactions (false negatives) has been proposed based on adherence to known fundamental topological properties of biological networks [1], albeit in undirected networks.  The aim of this project is to extend this work to the prediction of novel interactions based on directed regulatory interactions and their kinetic properties. Applying Alon [2] regulatory motifs as basic building blocks is one potential approach.  Machine learning techniques would be applied to artificial networks with known defects to create predictive models for inferring the such novel interactions. The results of the project will be summarized in a paper that will be submitted in high-impact peer review journal or conference.

References:
[1]  Guimerà R, Sales-Pardo M. Missing and spurious interactions and the reconstruction of complex networks.Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Dec 29;106(52):22073-8.
[2]  Alon U. Network motifs: theory and experimental approaches. Nat Rev Genet. 2007 Jun;8(6):450-61.
